Are Silver Travertine Tiles Better Than Other Alternatives? Know How!  

Travertine is a kind of Limestone formed by naturally occurring mineral deposits in springs. Calcite is a geological stone consisting of calcium carbonate. Travertine tiles have special qualities, which are mostly due to the addition of minerals to calcite. It is one of the most versatile components due to its variety of finishes. 

Other stone types include Granite, Marble, Slate, and Limestone. However, there is an apparent difference between Travertine and other stones, primarily due to the process of manufacture; also, they have a wide range of properties. This article explores some of the reasons why Silver Travertine Tiles are so popular. 

Why Are Silver Travertine Tiles So Popular? 

Silver tiles Travertine are extremely popular among renovators, landscapers, and architects for a variety of reasons, including: 

The tile has a rich monochromatic tone and natural lustre, making it appealing and durable.  

Silver Travertine Tiles can withstand heavy foot traffic and resist scratches and chips.  

It is resistant to water damage, making it suitable for both indoor and outdoor use. 

These tiles can withstand extreme weather conditions, including rain, hail, and direct sunlight. This makes it a popular option for outdoor use. 

Aside from being unaffected by normal weather conditions, Silver Travertine Tiles can also withstand extreme cold temperatures and tremendous heat waves. This makes it a popular choice for bushfire-prone areas and harsh cold temperatures. 

It is an excellent alternative for individuals who want to throw outdoor events because these tiles will not be damaged or stained. 

Silver Tiles Travertine can be finished in a variety of ways to suit various purposes, including a polished finish for a sumptuous, smooth and glossy appearance, as well as reflective surfaces. 

 A honed finish offers a smooth, matte surface with minimal sheen and texture, while a brushed finish adds a natural and refined touch. 

The tumbled effect can be achieved by placing small bits of stone cut to a specific size in a rubber-coated plastic barrel filled with water and abrasive grit. This will have soft edges and a naturally worn-out appearance. 

Travertine Tiles Silver are a cost-effective option for flooring and other applications. 

Their small pores allow liquids to penetrate, making them easier to stain. However, applying a sealer solves this problem and makes these tiles stain-resistant. It is possible that sealant must be reapplied on a regular basis, but this is uncommon. 

Maintenance & Care Tips for Your Travertine 

"The best offence is a good defence" regarding travertine cleaning and maintenance. To maintain your Silver Travertine tiles looking their best, take precautions against pollution, grime, and other substances that might harm or discolour the stone. 

The most important thing you can do for your Silver Travertine Tiles is seal them regularly. A proper sealer will provide an invisible barrier on the stone's surface, repelling water and other things that can cause stains. To keep the sealer working properly, reapply it every few years or as needed. 

In addition to sealing, make sure to clean your Silver Tiles on a regular basis. You only need a gentle cleanser developed exclusively for natural stone; avoid using harsh chemicals or abrasives, as these might damage the stone's delicate surface. When mopping or cleaning with a hose, please use lukewarm water; high temperatures can develop cracks or chips in Silver Travertine tile over time. 

Following these basic guidelines, your Silver Travertine Tile should remain in excellent shape for many years. 

Common Applications 

In Australia, Silver Travertine Pavers & tiles are widely accessible and are the most popular forms of tiles. They are popular for both indoor and outdoor use. These unique tiles make them ideal for kitchen flooring, bathrooms, laundry, bedrooms, dining rooms, and other applications. It is also suitable for use as a kitchen splashback, mantelpiece stone, or feature wall. Patio stone pavers, pool coping, driveways, retaining walls, letterboxes and BBQ stone cladding are among the most common outdoor applications. 

Choose Premium Silver Travertine Tiles 

You can also contact premium Silver Travertine Tiles providers such as Stone Depot, which has a team of professionals to help you decide which stone to buy. If you plan in time and choose premium quality, you can save the expense and bother of having your space dug multiple times. 
